[MUSIC]
So in this lesson, we'll talk about
the Arduino Environment in general.
So that includes the Arduino itself,
but also the software environment and
the other hardware components that
you can add on to an Arduino.
We'll introduce those right here.
So, the Arduino Environment starts off
with the Arduino development board itself.
It looks like this.
Now, the development board,
it's got an eight bit microcontroller.
And actually,
when you get your development board,
it might look different from this.
They all look slightly different.
Not they all, but this is an Arduino Uno.
And the Arduino Uno, this is the one that
you should be getting if you get a new
one, it should be version three.
And this one might be a little bit older,
but they all look very similar.
So there's an eight bit
microcontroller on there,
the big chip you can see is
an eight bit microcontroller.
And there are the chips in there
too to interact with the USB and
things like this.
There's other hardware on there, to allow
you to program the microcontroller.
So through the USB, so the USB port,
you can see that at the top left.
That is the cable that is going to
be connected to the desktop laptop.
Your code will go across that
cable when you want to program it.
There is a chip in there that
communicates with the USB
that allows the transferred
data to the microcontroller.
All right so
that's the USB programming interface,
there's also software on the Arduino,
the boot loader that handles that too.
And there are IO pins.
Now I/O pins, IO stands for input output.
The pins are the connection
to the outside world.
So on the Arduino board you can see
them on the top and on the bottom,
that row on the top and
row on the bottom there, these holes.
Maybe a little hard to see,
but there are holes on there.
And those holes you can
stick wires in there,
and those holes are directly wired through
the board to the pins of the chips.
So, if you look at that chip,
it's got these pins, these
pieces of metal sticking out that are the
leads connected to the outside world.
And those are wired through the board
through traces on the board to
those holes.
So, by connecting wires to
those holes you can connect
other the devices to the micro controller.
So the Arduino development board
right there is the first component
in the environment.
But that's not the whole thing.
Arduino also has a software environment,
an IDE.
IDE stands for
Integrated Development Environment and
you can see an image of it here.
Basically what this is for is for coding.
You write the code in there.
And by the way, technically you
don't have to use the Arduino IDE.
You could program an Arduino using
eclipse or some other IDE if you want to.
We're gonna go with the Arduino IDE.
It's easier, it's easier to handle.
Arduino eclipses more, it's more
versatile and it can do a lot of things.
And if you're very used to it, then okay.
But we're gonna go with the Arduino IDE.
You can write code in there,
you can compile the code.
You can program it,
upload it to your board, things like that.
We're not seeing the whole thing, but
we'll go through it in slides later.
But this is an important
part of the environment.
You download this from the website,
arduino.cc.
You go there, you download this,
you install it on your machine.
It works on every platform,
Windows, Linux.
Mac.
And maybe Android,
I don't know, I have to check.
But Arduino Environment,
you download this and install it.
It's got the cross compiler.
Means it can take your code,
your Arduino sketch, and compiles it for
the target platform.
Which is the Arduino's processor.
The ATmegathree28.
Also it's got a debugger in there.
It's got a little bit of a simulator.
It's got a programmer so
it allows you to actually copy your code,
copy the executable code onto the Arduino.
So we'll be using that and that's
an important part of the environment.
We'll go through it in
detail in later slides.
So, so far we've got
the Arduino development board,
we've got the Arduino IDE,
which you see here for programming.
Also, you've got the shields,
what they call Arduino shields.
Now, these shields,
this is one of the things that
people really like about Arduino.
The reason why Arduino's gotten so
popular is because people can use
Arduino to build hardware systems,
hardware software systems, without
knowing hardly anything about hardware.
And part of the way they do
that is with these shields.
So, when you actually wanna do make a more
complicated system you need complicated
devices.
Complicated integrated circuits.
So actually if you look here,
you've got a stack of three boards.
It's a little hard to see but
there's a stack of three boards.
On the top is actually
the ethernet controller shield.
And we'll work with this
later in the course.
But the Ethernet controller
shield It's got an Ethernet jack
which you can connect to the Ethernet
with, a wired connection.
And in the middle of that there's a chip,
an integrated circuit which is
called an Ethernet controller.
And it is needed to manage
the Ethernet connection.
Now, if you were to do this from scratch,
connect to an Ethernet controller chip,
it would be a lot of work.
The data sheet on that
Ethernet controller, actually,
I think I've used that
Ethernet controller.
Separately.
I had a student group do it and
it's hundreds of pages for
that data sheet.
It's very complicated.
There's a lot of wiring.
The thing looks like it
has 80 pins on the side.
You gotta wire all that up.
It's a lot of wiring and
it's a lot of coding.
But what happens with these shields is
they basically pre wire everything.
So they give you a board, a little shield,
which has the chip on there pre wired.
You take that board,
you stack it on top of the Arduino.
So it has pins going out underneath
the board, and you stack it on top.
It goes into the holes
on the Arduino board.
So it is immediately just wired for
you to the Arduino.
You don't have to do any work, all right?
You don't have to have any
knowledge about the wiring.
So it's prewired for you and
it comes with a set of libraries.
And we'll get into more
depth about these later.
But it comes with a set of
functions that are premade,
that do everything
interesting you need to do.
So you don't have to understand
almost anything about
what the ethernet controller chip does and
how it works.
You can just call these library functions
and they will send messages and
do all the basic things.
And it makes it very simple for you, even
if you don't know anything about hardware.
So, this is another important
part of the environment.
It's part of why Arduino is so popular.
So, Arduino environment.
If you look at it,
you've got the development board.
You got the IDE for writing code.
And you've got the shields.
A variety of shields from different third
party vendors that you can buy, that come
with libraries that make interacting with
different pieces of hardware very easy.
So let's look a little more
at the development board.
It's got a microcontroller,
it's got a USB interface to a PC.
Large open source community, so the board
itself it's an open source design.
What that means is that
if you go to arduino.cc,
go to their website,
you'll find the schematics for that board.
You'll find, in fact I think we
showed it in our earlier slides.
Where you'll find the schematics for
that board,
the different components on that board and
how they are wired together so
if you wanted to, if you have a mind
to do it, you could take that and
design your own board,
because it's open source.
It's open design.
Don't do that, it's expensive.
It's much cheaper to just
buy the pre made board.
But you could go ahead and
take that board design and
build your own if you wanted to do
it cheaply or something like that.
You could modify it if you wanted to.
So it's an open source design.
And there's a large open source
community in there that uses it.
The hardware's open source,
also the software.
That IDE that we saw,
that's also open source.
It's written in Java and
it's open source so you can take that and
modify it if you want to.
So let's start right here
looking at the board,
the different components on the board.
We've got a reset button.
That just resets the device.
USB connection, power connection.
So the power is an external power.
We won't be needing it, I don't think,
because USB can also provide power.
So unless you're connecting the arduino
to something more heavy duty,
like some motors or something like that.
The USB power should be sufficient so
we'll end up using USB power.
But there's also a power connector and
it has a co axle jack you can plug in
a wall power into it if you need to.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]